XIV.
THE FIRST BLOW.
I was so pleased at having given the slip too long, John, that I began to enjoy myself and look around me with some interest on the strange land that I was in.
I had crossed a marshy tract full of willows, bulrushes, and odd outlandish swampy trees, and I had now come out upon the skirts of an open piece of undulating sandy country, about a mile long, dotted with a few pines and a great number of contorted trees, not unlike the oak in growth, but pale in the foliage like willows.
On the far side of the open stood one of the hills, with two quaint craggy peaks shining vividly in the sun.
I now felt, for the first time, the joy of exploration.
The isle was uninhabited.
My shipmates I had left behind, and nothing lived in front of me but dumb brutes and fowls.
I turned hither and thither among the trees.
Here and there were flowering plants, unknown to me.
Here and there I saw snakes, and one raised his head from a ledge of rock and hissed at me with a noise not unlike the spinning of a top.
Little did I suppose that he was a deadly enemy and that the noise was the famous rattle.
Then I came to a long thicket of these oak-like trees, live or evergreen oaks, I heard afterwards they should be called,
which grew low along the sand like brambles, the boughs curiously twisted, the foliage compact like thatch.
The thicket stretched down from the top of one of the sandy knolls, spreading and growing taller as it went,
until it reached the margin of the broad reedy fen through which the nearest of the little rivers soaked its way into the anchorage.
The marsh was steaming in the strong sun, and the outline of the spyglass trembled through the haze.
All at once there began to go a sort of bustle among the bulrushes.
A wild duck flew up with a quack, another followed,
and soon over the whole surface of the marsh a great cloud of birds hung screaming and circling in the air.
I judged at once that some of my shipmates must be drawing near along the borders of the fen.
Nor was I deceived, for soon I heard the very distant and low tones of a human voice,
which, as I continued to give ear, grew steadily louder and nearer.
This put me in a great fear, and I crawled under cover of the nearest live oak and squatted there, harkening as silent as a mouse.
Another voice answered, and then the first voice, which I now recognized to be Silvers,
once more took up the story and ran on for a long while in a stream, only now and again interrupted by the other.
By the sound they must have been talking earnestly and almost fiercely, but no distinct word came to my hearing.
At last the speakers seemed to have paused and perhaps to have sat down, for not only did they cease to draw any nearer,
but the birds themselves began to grow more quiet and to settle again to their places in the swamp.
And now I began to feel that I was neglecting my business,
that since I had been so foolhardy as to come ashore with these desperadoes,
the least I could do was to overhear them at their councils,
and that my plain and obvious duty was to draw as close as I could manage under the favorable ambush of the crouching trees.
I could tell the direction of the speakers pretty exactly,
not only by the sound of their voices,
but by the behavior of the few birds that still hung in alarm above the heads of the intruders.
Crawling on all fours, I made steadily but slowly towards them,
till at last, raising my head to an aperture among the leaves,
I could see clear down into a little green dell beside the marsh,
and closely set about with trees,
where Long John Silver and another of the crew stood face to face in conversation.
The sun beat full upon them.
Silver had thrown his hat beside him on the ground,
and his great, smooth, blonde face,
all shining with heat,
was lifted to the other man's in a kind of appeal.
Mate, he was saying,
it's because I think's gold dust of you,
gold dust and you may lay to that.
If I hadn't took to you like pitch,
do you think I'd have been here a warning of you?
All's up, you can't make nor mend.
It's to save your neck that I'm speaking,
and if one of the Wildons knew it,
where'd I be, Tom?
Now tell me, where'd I be?
Silver, said the other man,
and I observed he was not only red in the face,
but spoke as hoarse as a crow,
and his voice shook, too, like a taut rope.
Silver, says he,
you're old and you're honest, or has the name for it,
and you've money, too, which lots of poor sailors hasn't,
and you're brave, or I'm mistook,
and will you tell me you'll let yourself be led away
with that kind of a mess of swabs?
Not you.
As sure as God sees me, I'd sooner lose my hand,
if I turn again my duty.
And then, all of a sudden,
he was interrupted by a noise.
I had found one of the honest hands.
Well, here, at that same moment,
came news of another.
Far away, out in the marsh,
there arose, all of a sudden,
a sound like the cry of anger,
then another on the back of it,
and then one horrid,
long-drawn scream.
The rocks of the spyglass
re-echoed it a score of times.
The whole troop of marsh birds
rose again, darkening heaven,
with a simultaneous whir,
and long after that death yell
was still ringing in my brain,
silence had re-established its empire,
and only the rustle of the
redescending birds and the boom
of the distant surges disturbed
the languor of the afternoon.
Tom had leaped at the sound,
like a horse at the spur,
but Silver had not winked an eye.
He stood where he was,
resting lightly on his crutch,
watching his companion like a snake
about to spring.
John! said the sailor,
stretching out his hand.
Hands off! cried Silver,
leaping back a yard, as it seemed to me,
with the speed and security
of a trained gymnast.
Hands off if you like, John Silver,
said the other.
It's a black conscience that can make you
feared of me, but in heaven's name
tell me, what was that?
That! returned Silver,
smiling away, but wearier than ever,
his eye a mere pinpoint in his
big face, but gleaming
like a crumb of glass.
That! Oh, I reckon that'll be
Alan!
And at this point Tom flashed out
like a hero.
Alan! he cried.
Then rest his soul for a true seaman.
And as for you, John Silver,
long you've been a mate of mine,
but you're mate of mine no more.
If I die like a dog, I'll die in my duty.
You've killed Alan, have you?
Kill me too if you can,
but I defy you.
And with that, this brave fellow
turned his back directly on the cook
and set off walking for the beach.
But he was not destined to go far.
With a cry,
John seized the branch of a tree,
whipped the crutch out of his armpit,
and sent that uncouth missile
hurtling through the air.
It struck poor Tom,
point foremost, and with stunning violence,
right between the shoulders
in the middle of his back.
His hands flew up,
he gave a sort of gasp, and fell.
Whether he were injured much or little,
none could ever tell.
Like enough, to judge from the sound,
his back was broken on the spot.
But he had no time
given him to recover.
Silver, agile as a monkey,
even without leg or crutch,
was on the top of him
next moment, and had twice
buried his knife up to the hilt
in that defenseless body.
From my place of ambush,
I could hear him pant aloud
as he struck the blows.
I do not know what it rightly is
to faint, but I do know
that for the next little while
the whole world swam away
from before me in a whirling mist.
Silver and the birds
and the tall spyglass hilltop
going round and round
and topsy-turvy before my eyes,
and all manner of bells
ringing and distant voices
shouting in my ear.
When I came again to myself,
the monster had pulled himself together
his crutch under his arm,
his hat upon his head.
Just before him,
Tom lay motionless upon the sward,
but the murderer
minded him not a whit,
cleansing his blood-stained knife
the while upon a wisp of grass.
Everything else was unchanged,
the sun still shining
mercilessly on the steaming
marsh and the tall pinnacle
of the mountain, and I could
scarce persuade myself that murder
had been actually done and a human life
cruelly cut short a moment
since before my eyes.
But now
John put his hand into his pocket,
brought out a whistle, and
blew upon it several modulated
blasts that rang far across the heated
air.
I could not tell, of course, the meaning
of the signal, but it instantly
awoke my fears.
More men would be coming.
I might be discovered.
They had already slain two
of the honest people. After
Tom and Alan might not I come
next?
Instantly I began to extricate
myself and crawl back again
with what speed and silence I could
manage to the more open portion
of the wood.
As I did so, I could hear hails
coming and going between the old buccaneer
and his comrades, and this
sound of danger lent me wings.
As soon as I
was clear of the thicket, I ran
as I never ran before, scarce
minding the direction of my flight,
so long as it led me from the murderers.
And as I ran,
fear grew and grew upon me
until it turned into a kind
of frenzy.
Indeed, could
anyone be more entirely lost
than I? When the
gun fired, how should I dare
to go down to the boats among those
fiends still smoking from their
prime? Would not the first
of them who saw me wring my neck
like a snipes?
Would not my absence itself be an evidence
to them of my alarm, and therefore
of my fatal knowledge?
It was all over, I thought.
Goodbye to the Hispaniola,
goodbye to the squire, the doctor,
and the captain. There was
nothing left for me but death by starvation
or death by the hands of the
mutineers.
All this while, as I say,
I was still running, and
without taking any notice, I had drawn
near to the foot of the little hill with
the two peaks, and had got into
a part of the island where the live
oaks grew more widely apart, and
seemed more like forest trees in their
bearing and dimensions.
Mingled with these were a few scattered
pines, some fifty,
some nearer seventy, feet high.
The air, too,
smelt more freshly than down beside
the marsh.
And here a fresh alarm
brought me to a standstill with
a thumping heart.
End of chapter
Recorded November 16th,
2005, in Longmont,
Colorado.